README.md, before:

# The Smelly Eight: An Empirical Study on the Prevalence of Code Smells in Quantum Computing

This artifact, i.e., repository, contains all scripts, data, and instructions required to [repeat and reproduce](https://www.acm.org/publications/policies/artifact-review-and-badging-current) the study 'The Smelly Eight: An Empirical Study on the Prevalence of Code Smells in Quantum Computing'.

If you use this artifact for academic purposes, please cite it as

```Bibtex
@misc{ChenQSmell2023Data,
  author = {Chen, Qihong and Câmara, Rúben and Campos, José and Ahmed, Iftekhar},
  title = {{The Smelly Eight: An Empirical Study on the Prevalence of Code Smells in Quantum Computing -- Data repository v0.0.1}},
  year = {2023},
  publisher = {Zenodo},
  doi = {??.???/???.?????},
  url = {https://doi.org/??.???/???.?????}
}
```

in case you only want to cite the associated paper, please cite it as

```Bibtex
@inproceedings{ChenQSmell2023,
  author = {Chen, Qihong and Câmara, Rúben and Campos, José and Ahmed, Iftekhar},
  booktitle = {2023 IEEE/ACM 45th International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE)},
  title = {{The Smelly Eight: An Empirical Study on the Prevalence of Code Smells in Quantum Computing}},
  year = {2023},
  volume = {},
  number = {},
  pages = {},
  keywords = {},
  doi = {},
  url = {},
  ISSN = {},
  month = {May},
}
```

## Structure

Each top-level directory in this repository provides the required scripts and data to perform a specific analysis / experiment described in the associated paper.

| Directory                        | Description |
|:---------------------------------|:------------|
| [`experiments/`](experiments/)   | Study the prevalence of quantum-specific smells on quantum programs |
| [`samples/`](samples/)           | Examples used in Section IV in the associated paper |
| [`subjects/`](subjects/)         | The subjects (i.e., quantum programs) used in the empirical evaluation |
| [`survey/`](survey/)             | Questions asked and answers provided by participants of the survey |
| [`tools/`](tools/)               | Local directory that keeps all required tools and environments to run those tools |
| [`tools/qsmell/`](tools/qsmell/) | QSmell's source code |
| [`utils/`](utils/)               | Utility scripts that are used by more than one experiment / analysis |

Each top-level directory has the following structure:
- `data/`: Data files used as inputs by the scripts and automatically generated by the scripts of each analysis to facilitate faster processing.
  * `data/FILE-SPECS.md`: Defines the format of all CSV files in each `data` directory.
- `scripts/`: Scripts for performing the corresponding analysis / experiments.
- `statistics/`: R scripts that process the data and produce numbers, tables, and figures for the associated paper.

Commit message:

QSmell has been exported to https://github.com/jose/qsmell.

README.md, after:

# The Smelly Eight: An Empirical Study on the Prevalence of Code Smells in Quantum Computing

This artifact, i.e., repository, contains all scripts, data, and instructions required to [repeat and reproduce](https://www.acm.org/publications/policies/artifact-review-and-badging-current) the study 'The Smelly Eight: An Empirical Study on the Prevalence of Code Smells in Quantum Computing'.

If you use this artifact for academic purposes, please cite it as

```Bibtex
@misc{ChenQSmell2023Data,
  author = {Chen, Qihong and Câmara, Rúben and Campos, José and Ahmed, Iftekhar},
  title = {{The Smelly Eight: An Empirical Study on the Prevalence of Code Smells in Quantum Computing -- Data repository v0.0.1}},
  year = {2023},
  publisher = {Zenodo},
  doi = {??.???/???.?????},
  url = {https://doi.org/??.???/???.?????}
}
```

in case you only want to cite the associated tool, [QSmell](https://github.com/jose/qsmell), please cite it as

```Bibtex
@misc{QSmellV001,
  author = {Chen, Qihong and Câmara, Rúben and Campos, José and Ahmed, Iftekhar},
  title = {{QSmell v0.0.1}},
  year = {2023},
  publisher = {GitHub},
  url = {https://github.com/jose/qsmell}
}
```

in case you only want to cite the associated paper, please cite it as

```Bibtex
@inproceedings{ChenQSmell2023,
  author = {Chen, Qihong and Câmara, Rúben and Campos, José and Ahmed, Iftekhar},
  booktitle = {2023 IEEE/ACM 45th International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE)},
  title = {{The Smelly Eight: An Empirical Study on the Prevalence of Code Smells in Quantum Computing}},
  year = {2023},
  volume = {},
  number = {},
  pages = {},
  keywords = {},
  doi = {},
  url = {},
  ISSN = {},
  month = {May},
}
```

## Structure

Each top-level directory in this repository provides the required scripts and data to perform a specific analysis / experiment described in the associated paper.

| Directory                        | Description |
|:---------------------------------|:------------|
| [`experiments/`](experiments/)   | Study the prevalence of quantum-specific smells on quantum programs |
| [`samples/`](samples/)           | Examples used in Section IV in the associated paper |
| [`subjects/`](subjects/)         | The subjects (i.e., quantum programs) used in the empirical evaluation |
| [`survey/`](survey/)             | Questions asked and answers provided by participants of the survey |
| [`tools/`](tools/)               | Local directory that keeps all required tools and environments to run those tools |
| [`utils/`](utils/)               | Utility scripts that are used by more than one experiment / analysis |

Each top-level directory has the following structure:
- `data/`: Data files used as inputs by the scripts and automatically generated by the scripts of each analysis to facilitate faster processing.
  * `data/FILE-SPECS.md`: Defines the format of all CSV files in each `data` directory.
- `scripts/`: Scripts for performing the corresponding analysis / experiments.
- `statistics/`: R scripts that process the data and produce numbers, tables, and figures for the associated paper.
