REQUIREMENTS.md, before:

# Requirements

This markdown file focus on the requirements of any software or script available or used in the artifact (i.e., repository).

1. A Unix-based machine

Any bash command, tool, or script available or used in this repository has been tested on a Unix-based machine and therefore might not work on other operating systems, e.g., Windows.

2. [GIT](https://git-scm.com) and [GNU wget](https://www.gnu.org/software/wget)

To be able to automatically get the required artefacts, e.g., to get Qiskit's repositories with the quantum subjects source code, [GIT](https://git-scm.com) and [GNU wget](https://www.gnu.org/software/wget) must be installed and available on your machine.  To assess whether both programs are installed and available, please run the following commands

```bash
(git  --version > /dev/null 2>&1 && echo "git is installed and available")  || echo "ERROR: git is not installed or available" # (< 1 second)
(wget --version > /dev/null 2>&1 && echo "wget is installed and available") || echo "ERROR: wget is not installed or available" # (< 1 second)
```

In case either [GIT](https://git-scm.com) or [GNU wget](https://www.gnu.org/software/wget) is not installed, please visit the its' official webpage and follow the installation instructions.

3. [Perl](https://www.perl.org)

<!-- TODO. -->  To assess whether it is installed and available, please run the following command

```bash
(perl --version > /dev/null 2>&1 && echo "perl is installed and available") || echo "ERROR: perl is not installed or available" # (< 1 second)
```

In case either [Perl](https://www.perl.org) is not installed, please visit the it's official webpage and follow the installation instructions.

4. [GNU Parallel](https://www.gnu.org/software/parallel)

<!-- TODO. --> to parallelize experiments.  To assess whether it is installed and available, please run the following command

```bash
(parallel --version > /dev/null 2>&1 && echo "parallel is installed and available") || echo "ERROR: parallel is not installed or available" # (< 1 second)
```

In case either [GNU Parallel](https://www.gnu.org/software/parallel) is not installed, please visit the it's official webpage and follow the installation instructions.

5. [R](https://www.r-project.org)

To be able to automatically run any statistical analysis, [R](https://www.r-project.org) must be installed and available on your machine.  To assess whether it is installed and available, please run the following command

```bash
(Rscript --version > /dev/null 2>&1 && echo "R is installed and available") || echo "ERROR: R is not installed or available" # (< 1 second)
```

In case either [R](https://www.r-project.org) is not installed, please visit the it's official webpage and follow the installation instructions.

Commit message:

Addressed TODOs.  Added user's expected skills.

REQUIREMENTS.md, after:

# Requirements

This markdown file focus on the requirements of any software or script available or used in the artifact (i.e., repository).

## User

It is expected / assumed the user is able to navigate in/out directories on the command line and comfortable running bash commands on the command line.  Minimum / Basic knowledge of Bash, Python, and R might be required to read and/or modify any script.

## Machine

A Unix-based machine.  Any bash command, tool, or script available or used in this repository has been tested on a Unix-based machine and therefore might not work on other operating systems, e.g., Windows.

## Software

#### [GIT](https://git-scm.com) and [GNU wget](https://www.gnu.org/software/wget)

To be able to automatically get the required artefacts, e.g., to get Qiskit's repositories with the quantum subjects source code, [GIT](https://git-scm.com) and [GNU wget](https://www.gnu.org/software/wget) must be installed and available on your machine.  To assess whether both programs are installed and available, please run the following commands

```bash
(git  --version > /dev/null 2>&1 && echo "git is installed and available")  || echo "ERROR: git is not installed or available" # (< 1 second)
(wget --version > /dev/null 2>&1 && echo "wget is installed and available") || echo "ERROR: wget is not installed or available" # (< 1 second)
```

In case either [GIT](https://git-scm.com) or [GNU wget](https://www.gnu.org/software/wget) is not installed, please visit the its' official webpage and follow the installation instructions.

#### [Perl - Programming language](https://www.perl.org)

To be able to run the utility program [Cloc](https://github.com/AlDanial/cloc) (download and configured by the [`tools/get-tools.sh`](tools/get-tools.sh) script).  To assess whether it is installed and available, please run the following command

```bash
(perl --version > /dev/null 2>&1 && echo "perl is installed and available") || echo "ERROR: perl is not installed or available" # (< 1 second)
```

In case [Perl](https://www.perl.org) is not installed, please visit the it's official webpage and follow the installation instructions.

#### [GNU Parallel](https://www.gnu.org/software/parallel)

To be able to run experiments in parallel.  To assess whether it is installed and available, please run the following command

```bash
(parallel --version > /dev/null 2>&1 && echo "parallel is installed and available") || echo "ERROR: parallel is not installed or available" # (< 1 second)
```

In case [GNU Parallel](https://www.gnu.org/software/parallel) is not installed, please visit the it's official webpage and follow the installation instructions.

#### [R Project for Statistical Computing](https://www.r-project.org)

To be able to automatically run any statistical analysis, [R](https://www.r-project.org) must be installed and available on your machine.  To assess whether it is installed and available, please run the following command

```bash
(Rscript --version > /dev/null 2>&1 && echo "R is installed and available") || echo "ERROR: R is not installed or available" # (< 1 second)
```

In case [R](https://www.r-project.org) is not installed, please visit the it's official webpage and follow the installation instructions.

#### [ImageMagick - Convert, Edit, or Compose Digital Images](https://imagemagick.org)

To automatically [`convert`](http://imagemagick.org/script/convert.php) PDF images in PNG images.  Used by the [`subjects/scripts/get-quantum-circuit-as-a-draw.sh`] script.

```bash
(convert --version > /dev/null 2>&1 && echo "ImageMagick's convert is installed and available") || echo "ERROR: ImageMagick is not installed or available" # (< 1 second)
```

In case [ImageMagick](https://imagemagick.org) is not installed, please visit the it's official webpage and follow the installation instructions.
